#Microeconomics

Economics: The study of how society allocates its scarce resources to
produce and distribute goods that are valued.

###Private vs Public Sector Decision Making
 - The appropriate application of principles leads to increase
 - Public Sector is concerned about:
  - Constituency
  - Tax payers
  - Customers
  - Employees

###Positive vs Normative
 - Positive: descriptive / facts
 - Normative: prescriptive / value judgement

###Economic Premises
 - Unlimited wants (unlimited demand)
 - Scarcity - limited resources
  - Land, Labor, and Capital

> Growth of population fuels growth of the economy

###Economy as a system
 - Consumption: use or derive benefit from an economic good or service
 - Production: Create or make available an economic good or service
 - Household: basic unit of consumption. Goal: maximize satisfaction
 - Firm: Basic unit of production involving conversion of inputs into outputs. Goal to maximize profits.
 - Public Sector: government, public authorities, non-profits. Goal to serve public good at a low cost
 - Market: organization that brings together consumers and producers of goods and services
 - Demand: consumer's side of the Market
 - Supply: supplier's side of the Market
 - Equilibrium Price: Consumers are willing to buy what the producers are willing to sell

###Market Economics Framework
 - What goods should be produced?
  - The goods that a market economy produces are those that maximize
  the net monetary gains to the consumer and producers
 - How should they be produced?
  - Goods are produced using the least-cost methods
 - For whom should goods be produced?
  - Goods are produced for and consumed by individuals who value them the most,
  where value is determined by monetary expenditure

###Economic goals
 - Efficiency: an economy's resources are being used to produce goods
 that provide the greaterst benefit at the least cost
 - Pareto Efficiency: Resource allocation where no one could be made
 better off without making someone else worse off.
 - Kaldor-Hicks Efficiency: Some are made better off, some are made
 worse off, but the net benefits are positive.

###Public sector perspective on economic goals
 - What goods?
  - Are all goods ethical to produce?
  - Are all goods cost-effective or profitable to produce?
 - How are they produced?
  - When produced at least cost, who pays for the externalities?
 - For whom?
  - Should the weathiest always have access to the detriment of the poor?

###Market Failure
 - Markets are not always self-correcting, particularly in the short term
 - Monopolies: One supplier controls the market
 - Externalities: Additional costs or benefits imposed on others without appropriate compensation
 - Public goods: nonrival, nonexclusive goods
 - Imperfect information: information asymmetry
  - Adverse selection, moral hazard, principal agent problem
 - Equity: who should benefit and who should bear the costs and in what proportion and by what metrics?

###Using economics wisely
 - Question numbers
 - Question assumptions
 - Question assertions
 - Question context

###Factors of Demand
 - Price
 - Number of consumers
 - Income levels
 - Preferences
 - Expectations of future prices
 - Related goods
 - Substitutes

###Demand Curve
 - Relationship between price and quantity demanded
 - When price goes up, quantity demanded goes down
 - Downward sloping because:
  - Income effect
  - Substitution effect
  - Diminishing marginal utility
 - Change in any demand factor except for price causes a shift in demand, not in quantity demanded

###Factors of Supply
 - Price of a good
 - Number of producers
 - Technology
 - Price of inputs
 - Price of related goods
 - Number of competitors
 - Regulations

###Supply Curve
 - Relationship between price and quantity produced
 - When price goes up, quantity produced goes up
 - Upward sloping because:
  - Diminishing marginal returns
 - Change in any supply factor except for price causes a shift in supply, not in quantity supplied